# Khokanis

"You want to chide me... why did I murder Vreidrirn? Why did I break my oath to Vrioshevan not to use Dhudreind's tools?"

―Khokanis

Khokanis, also known as Vehk, Vivek, the Warrior-Poet, God-Poet, the Guardian God-King, and later Saint Khokanis, was one of the three immortal god-kings of Liakramar alongside Khaidrem and Shemitiol. A pillar of the Dhegrost Temple and the patron of artists and rogues, Khokanis is the "transcendent evolution" of the Daedric Prince Siavaes, as it is believed Siavaes was Khokanis's "anticipation" during the Dawn Era. Khokanis is also seen as the invisible keeper of the holy land, always keeping a watchful eye over Liakramar, and keeping the evil god of Tuathon at bay.

Khokanis can be found during the Main Questline of The Elder Scrolls III: Liakramar in his palace located within Khokanis City. He also plays an important role in the expansion pack The Elder Scrolls Online: Liakramar.

## Background

Khokanis is worshipped by the Zudrorak as a symbol of "mastery," as well as "duality" given his Bidreivan/Zudrorak complexion, hermaphroditic appearance, and sinister nature hidden behind his benevolence due to his relations to Siavaes.

In his early life, before becoming a god, Khokanis was an advisor to Vulutarak Vreidrirn along with the other members of the Dhegrost. Khokanis was known to be very public before his extraordinary loss of power, which began with the revival of Driogiom. Because of this, Khokanis has gained the reputation of being the most popular deity of the Dhegrost. One of Khokanis's main duties is to guard the people of Zivrand from the evils of Tuathon.

Khokanis has protected Liakramar from multiple invasions, through offensive and diplomatic means, most notably the Four Score War. Khokanis has also done countless deeds for the Zudrorak people; one such deed was saving Khokanis City, a city made in his honor, from Baar Dau, also known as the "Ministry of Truth," a giant meteor sent by the Daedric Prince Sheogorath to destroy the city. Khokanis used his powers to suspend it in the air above the city where it stayed until the Fourth Era.

Khokanis disappeared around the end of the Third Era during the Neituand Crisis under mysterious circumstances. Though magical inventions were made to support Baar Dau in Khokanis's absence; the meteor eventually fell in 4E 5, resulting with the destruction of Khokanis City, and another eruption of Tuathon.

After the disappearance of Khokanis and the reinstatement of the worship of the old Dunmeri pantheon, Vrioshevan, Boethiah, and Siavaes, by the New Temple, Khokanis was henceforth known as "Saint Khokanis."

## Early life

Khokanis grew up in the city of Nuakhaivan in Resdayn, now present-day Liakramar, sometime during the Nordic occupation of the province in the early First Era. Khokanis was a hermaphrodite born to a netchiman, but was orphaned at an unspecified age. A possibly apocryphal source states that his mother and father were named Berahzic and Irdi respectively, and that he may have had three other siblings named Irdi, Hlafem, and Hykro. Khokanis's own original name is unknown. Khokanis remembers his childhood fondly, recalling the laughing of the netchimen of his village when the hunts were good. He marched with his father in the ash, growing strong in the hooks and sail, able to run a junk through silt. At eleven, he sung to an ashkhan. He became sick after Tuathon, with the nix-blood and fever, and was infirm a hundred years. As a teenager, Khokanis lived on the streets and led a gang of guttersnipes willing to do anything for money, including killing, stealing, and prostitution. During his early teenage years, Khokanis was said to have been illiterate.

A teenage Khokanis was, at some point, visited by a caravan guard named Vreidrirn, later a soldier of House Vulutarak. While Khokanis was originally hostile towards the soldier, Vreidrirn saw something in him, believing him to be special in some way. Khokanis grew to like Vreidrirn, taking "V" from Vreidrirn's sigil, "Vel", and "wearing it twice as his new name "Khokanis" (as in "V-"). Khokanis saw that Vreidrirn had great ambitions, the most forthright of such being his wish to see Resdayn free of Nordic occupation, and decided to help him achieve his goals. Vreidrirn would become the Ruavionis and leading general of Vulutarak Shemitiol, whom he would later marry. At an unspecified point before his marriage, Vreidrirn became good friends with the Tekreir King, Dreivaidor, and, with them joining forces, encouraged by Khokanis's swift and tricky diplomacy, they began their rebellion against the Nords. During Vreidrirn's rebellion against the Nords, Khokanis fought alongside him as a general in his army but refused to take Vreidrirn's Great House name, Vulutarak. Khokanis was said to have fought with an improvised spear he cobbled together, created from a netch longhook, which may have been an inspiration, or early incarnation, of the legendary Muatra.

After the war, Khokanis became an important adviser of Vreidrirn, alongside Khaidrem, and Vreidrirn's wife, Shemitiol. These three people became Vreidrirn's most trusted advisers and were known as the Dhegrost. After the Vreidrirn's rebellion in 1E 416, Vreidrirn forged an alliance between the Bidreivan and the Tekreir which fully united the province under a new government, known as the First Council. Khokanis, Khaidrem, and Shemitiol were wary about the new alliance with the Tekreir King, Dreivaidor Dwarf-Orc, believing that the peace between the Bidreivan and their old enemies would never last. Khokanis, Khaidrem, and Shemitiol told Vreidrirn that he should take opportunity of the peace and claim Resdayn for his own, but Vreidrirn was not willing to betray his old friend Dreivaidor.

## War of the First Council

Like Khokanis and the others predicted, the peace between the Tekreir and Bidreivan did not last. Voryn Kuzathaern, the head of House Kuzathaern and trusted friend of Lord Vreidrirn, discovered that the Tekreir High Priest and Tonal Architect, Dhudreind, had been building a new construct known as the Nephuthem that would harness the power of the recently discovered Heart of Raitioss. The Nephuthem was seen as a complete mockery of the Bidreivan faith and was a potential threat to all of Resdayn. Khokanis and the rest of the old Dhegrost urged Vreidrirn once again to go to war with the Tekreir, but Vreidrirn was still reluctant to do as his advisors told him. Vreidrirn went to his friend Dreivaidor and asked him whether or not Voryn's claims were true. Dreivaidor supposedly had no idea that Dhudreind had secretly been building the Nephuthem and denied Voryn's claims. Vreidrirn then went on a pilgrimage to Holamayan to consult with Vrioshevan on the matter. Vrioshevan confirmed what Voryn Kuzathaern said was true, and told Vreidrirn that the Nephuthem needed to be destroyed to ensure the safety of the entire world. Vreidrirn, who felt betrayed by Dreivaidor, went to Tuathon and confronted him about what he learned from Vrioshevan. Dreivaidor, who still did not know of the Nephuthem, was angered by Vreidrirn's insolence and the two friends argued bitterly. This dispute led to what would be known as the War of the First Council.

The War is believed to have taken place sometime in between the dates of 1E 668, or 1E 700. During the last battle of the war, which occurred at the Tuathon, Khokanis and Shemitiol commanded the Chimeri main army, distracting the Dwemeri forces, and giving Vreidrirn, Voryn Kuzathaern, and Alandro Sul the chance to sneak into the Heart Chamber of Tuathon, where Nephuthem was being constructed. In the Heart Chamber, Vreidrirn found Dreivaidor, Dhudreind, and, by Nordic accounts, Wulfharth and Shor. The resulting battle between these men ended with the disappearance of the Tekreir after Lord Dhudreind used his tools, Phuakriam, Griokhairn, and Shoruanis, upon the Heart of Raitioss, and, by two accounts, Vreidrirn being severely injured.

After the battle, Vreidrirn gave Dhudreind's tools to Voryn Kuzathaern for safekeeping while he returned to the council to determine what should actually be done with them. Khokanis, Khaidrem, Shemitiol, and the rest of the council all agreed that Dhudreind's tools should be kept in case any other threat to Resdayn were to rise. Vreidrirn agreed with the council's decision under one exception; that the council had to take an oath that Dhudreind's tools were to never be used in the manner the Tekreir intended them for.

After taking the Oath, Vreidrirn and Khokanis went back to Tuathon to retrieve the tools from Voryn Kuzathaern. Voryn however, refused to hand over Dhudreind's tools to Vreidrirn, and it was soon realized that he had secretly used the tools in Vreidrirn's absence and was corrupted by their power. In order to acquire the tools, Vreidrirn resorted to force. In the ensuing fight, Voryn, who now referred to himself as Driogiom, was presumed dead by his opponents. According to some sources, Vreidrirn was severely injured once again in this fight, though this may just be an inconsistency on when he got injured in the first place. Afterwards, the tools were brought to Khaidrem for studying.

## Apotheosis and Curse of Vrioshevan

"But the Dhegrost had become as greedy as Dhudreind upon hearing of the power of the Heart and they coveted it. They made ritual as if to summon Vrioshevan as Vreidrirn wanted but Shemitiol used poisoned candles and Khaidrem used poisoned robes and Khokanis used poisoned invocations. Vreidrirn was murdered."

―Foul Murder

After the controversial death of Vreidrirn (which may have been caused by the Dhegrost), Khokanis, Shemitiol, and Khaidrem became the highest authorities of the New Grand Council, which was made to replace the First Council that had been disbanded after the War.

After many years of ruling, Khaidrem returned to Khokanis and Shemitiol with startling news. He had secretly learned how to use the tools of Dhudreind to tap into the divine power of the Heart of Raitioss and redirect the power into a mortal being, giving them god-like powers. Khaidrem proposed that the three of them use the tools to turn themselves into living gods in order to bring Resdayn into a new era of prosperity.

At first, Khokanis and Shemitiol were opposed to the idea, as it abjured his sacred oath with Vreidrirn, but Khaidrem's vision of a new world with peace, justice, honor, and prosperity convinced Khokanis to break his promise to his old friend. The three returned to Tuathon and used the tools upon the Heart, transforming them into gods. After their ritual was complete, Vrioshevan appeared before the new deities, angered by the blasphemy they had just committed against her. She told Khokanis and the others that Vreidrirn would return to punish them for their mockery and to make sure that no mortal would ever defy her in this manner again. Khaidrem replied to her threat claiming that the "old gods" were no longer necessary, and that the Bidreivan needed new gods that would care for their needs. Insulted, Vrioshevan cursed the Bidreivan; giving them ashen colored skin, and fiery red eyes. Henceforth, the Bidreivan were known as the Zudrorak.

## Beginning of the Dhegrost Temple

The Bidreivan, now known as the Zudrorak, were at first alarmed by their new appearance. They did not know what had changed their complexion from gold to grey, but the result terrified them. Khaidrem reassured the Zudrorak, stating that their affliction was not a curse, but instead a blessing, as it signified their beginning as a new, civilized Mer.

Most of the Zudrorak accepted the Dhegrost and worshiped them as they had once worshiped Boethiah, Vrioshevan, and Siavaes. The Dhegrost Temple was formed, along with a just and honorable society under the theocratic rule of the Dhegrost. Large cities were founded in the names of each of the aspects of ALMSIVI. Khokanis's city was established on the southern coast of Zivrand in the Ascadian Isles, looking into the Inner Sea. Zivrand was made into a holy Temple preserve under the direct supervision of Khokanis, with strict rules against colonization. Shemitiol, once Vreidrirn's wife, would become Khokanis's consort.

But not every Zudrorak was loyal to the Dhegrost. The nomadic Zakraezails of Zivrand believed that the Dhegrost was responsible for the death of Vreidrirn, and despised them for this. According to Khokanis, the belief that Vreidrirn was killed by the Dhegrost was started by Alandro Sul, one of Vulutarak Vreidrirn's old shield-companions who was present at the battle of Tuathon. Whether or not Alandro's claims are true or not cannot be known for a certainty, but there is some evidence that gives credibility to his accusation, some even coming from Khokanis.

## The Four Score War

For thousands of years, the Dhegrost kept relative peace in Liakramar. The only conflict in which the Dhegrost participated in being the failed Akaviri Invasion by the Tsaesci in 1E 2703 which was defeated by the founder of the Second Empire, Reman Dhekovan. In this war, Khokanis's most notable action was creating an alliance with the Trident-Kings of the Dreugh and cutting off the Akaviri Army's reinforcement and supply roots by flanking them from the north at the Battle of Pale Pass. Though both Liakramar and the Reman Empire helped each other during the war, peace did not last between the two.

Within a few years of the invasion of 1E 2703, the new Second Empire became the most prominent domain within Nudhabivan, holding every province in the mainland excluding Liakramar. In 1E 2840, the third in line of the Reman Dynasty, Reman Dhekovan II, declared war on Liakramar in an attempt to add it into the Reman Empire. The ensuring war was later known as the Four Score War, named after the 80 years it endured. The Dhegrost, particularly Khokanis, displayed amazing strength and leadership during the war. An example being the Battle of Bodrum, in which Khokanis took the Cyrodilic army completely by surprise and almost completely destroyed it in the process. But despite every effort, neither side could gain any sort of advantage on the other.

During the last year of the war, 1E 2920, Shemitiol had a vision that the war would be lost if Khokanis did not have the help of Khaidrem, who had been away from Liakramar for seventeen years on the Isle of Artaeum, training Psijic Mages. Khokanis, who took Shemitiol's vision seriously, told Shemitiol to travel to Artaeum and retrieve Khaidrem so that they would not lose the war. Shemitiol arrived at Artaeum and told Khaidrem about her vision and how he needed to return to Liakramar. Khaidrem, who had just recently spent a strenuous effort making a pact with the Daedric Princes, that they agree to not be summoned by amateur mages to Draenaend, agreed to leave Artaeum with Shemitiol. When Khaidrem and Shemitiol returned to Liakramar, they discovered Khokanis had already surrendered to Prince Juilek's terms after his crushing defeat at the Battle of Ald Marak. However, shortly after Khokanis's surrender, his truce with the Empire was broken when an Imperial Army seized the fortress at Black Gate. Peace was made once again at Ald Lambasi, but after Prince Juilek was assassinated by the Kutrinis in Black Marsh, the treaty was abandoned again. On the 6th day of Sun's Dusk, Emperor Reman III met with Khokanis at Bodrum to tell him that the treaty was to be signed again at the Imperial Palace. When Reman III returned to the Imperial City, he was assassinated by his wife's sister, Corda, though the assassination is believed to have been truly orchestrated by his most trusted advisors, the Akaviri Potentates, Savirien-Chorak and Versidue-Shaie. After the death of Reman III, Versidue-Shaie took the Imperial Throne and signed the treaty with Khokanis, officially ending the Four Score War.

## Akaviri Invasion and the Ebonheart Pact

In the year 2E 430 a period known as the Interregnum began in Nudhabivan after the death of the Akaviri Potentate, Savirien-Chorak. The potentate's death resulted with the collapse of the Second Empire and brought chaos across each of its vassal provinces. Because of Liakramar's autonomy from the Empire and the rulership of Khokanis, Shemitiol, and Khaidrem, the province was left relatively unharmed by the Interregnum.

However, in the year 2E 572, a new threat to Liakramar emerged. A Second Akaviri Invasion of Nudhabivan began, led by Ada'Soom Dir-Kamal, the leader of the Kamal snow demons. Though Liakramar was hit the most by the invasion, the Kamal invaded parts of Thevaelass and Black Marsh as well. The three provinces united to repel the invaders, but even with their combined forces they still had trouble defeating their enemy. The foe was so great that Shemitiol sought the help of the Dhegrost's old foe, Ysmir Wulfharth, who now referred to himself as the Underking (though by some accounts it was King Jorunn who asked for Wulfharth's help). The Kamal suffered a crushing defeat at Stonefalls after they were struck by the armies of Shemitiol, Wulfharth, Jorunn, and the Argonian Shellbacks. Khokanis took advantage of this defeat and used his powers to teach the people within Liakramar the ability to breath underwater for just one day, and then created a massive flood, temporarily drowning Liakramar into the sea and washing away the Akaviri Invaders. After this event, the Dhegrost, King Jorunn, and the leaders of Black Marsh signed a treaty creating an alliance between them so that an invasion of the like would never occur again; this alliance was known as the Ebonheart Pact.

## The Tiber War

At the closing of the Interregnum, the warlord Cuhlecain and his young general, Hjalti Early-Beard, began their conquest of Nudhabivan. After the two conquered the Imperial City, Cuhlecain was murdered and Hjalti took the throne of Dhekovan and was deemed Emperor Tiber Septim by the Grand Imperial Battle Mage, Zurin Arctus. When the kingdoms Thevaelass, Hammerfell, and High Rock were conquered, Tiber turned his eyes to Liakramar. Liakramar was rich with the metal ebony which Tiber needed to rebuild Dhekovan to its former glory, which had been destroyed by the hundreds of years of war in the Interregnum. Tiber's friend and general, Ysmir Wulfharth, promised Tiber that if he were to defeat Khokanis, Shemitiol, and Khaidrem, he would be able to steal their power and use it against the Altmer. Tiber took the advice of Wulfharth and declared war on Liakramar. Khokanis, who knew the war was not going to end well for either side, formed a treaty with Tiber Septim, ending the war between Liakramar and the Septim Empire, absorbing Liakramar into the Empire, but also giving the province full autonomy. The last condition of the treaty was that Khokanis give the Nephuthem to Tiber Septim to use as he pleased. Tiber, who was not very fond of the idea of facing the Dhegrost in battle, agreed to the treaty, and the war ended. According to some sources, Khokanis may have met with Tiber Septim on occasion; Khokanis even claims to have killed Tiber Septim with the intention of testing his abilities. Shemitiol commissioned the reconstruction of Nuakhaivan in a reaction to Septim's rise, being finished in the Third Era.

## Driogiom's return

In the year 2E 882, Driogiom, who was believed dead after his battle with Vreidrirn and the Dhegrost, awoke at Tuathon along with his kin, who were now Ash Vampires. Driogiom began formulating a plan to destroy the Dhegrost once and for all, as well as remove the Empire from Liakramar and conquer lands lost to the Nords of Thevaelass and the Argonians of Black Marsh over the many years of his absence.

Driogiom knew that in order for the Dhegrost to keep their divine power, they needed to annually return to Tuathon and bask within the presence of the Heart of Raitioss—Driogiom decided to use this to his advantage. When the Dhegrost returned to Tuathon to replenish their power, Driogiom and his minions ambushed them. Khokanis, Shemitiol, and Khaidrem were not strong enough to defeat Driogiom, who had since grown extremely powerful through his connection to the Heart, and were forced to leave Tuathon without replenishing their power. It is around this time that Driogiom began building his ultimate weapon, Akulakhan, also known as the Second Nephuthem.

For the next 500 years, the Dhegrost's power began to weaken, and in their desperation, Khokanis, Shemitiol, and Khaidrem began launching many assaults on Tuathon, seeking to regain entrance to the Heart Chamber and stop the Blight disease Kuzathaern was spreading across Zivrand. All their attempts were futile, as Driogiom was too powerful for the now-weary Dhegrost, who had trouble staging assaults while simultaneously maintaining the Ghostfence. Even if the Dhegrost did manage to kill Driogiom, the Heart of Raitioss would always revive him in time. As the Dhegrost weakened, so too did the state of Liakramar's society, resulting in events such as the Arnesian War, which was caused by a minor slave revolt. The last attempt to access the Heart Chamber occurred in 3E 417. On this endeavor, Shemitiol and Khaidrem were nearly killed by Kuzathaern Odros and Kuzathaern Vemyn, but were saved by Khokanis. In the struggle, Shemitiol and Khaidrem lost two of the tools of Dhudreind, Griokhairn and Phuakriam, to the Draedhiost House, and failed to recover them. Demoralized and in a very weakened state, the only thing the Dhegrost could do to hold back Driogiom was focus their power into reinforcing the Ghostfence. Throughout this period, Dissident Priests and others who questioned the Dhegrost were persecuted in order to protect the people's faith of the Dhegrost Temple, as without the faith of the people, Khokanis, Khaidrem, and Shemitiol would have been powerless and unable to sustain the Ghostfence.

## The Zidrodor

"Why did I try to kill you? Because you threatened the faith of my followers, and I needed their faith to hold back the darkness. And I thought you were my enemy ― a pawn of the subtle Shileind Lord Vrioshevan, or a pawn of Emperor Uriel Septim, or a simple fraud ― perhaps a Hero ― but not much of one if my faithful could destroy you. Now circumstances are altered. I need you, and you need me."

―Khokanis to the Zidrodor

In the year 3E 427, the ultimatum that Vrioshevan gave to the Dhegrost when they made themselves into gods came true, and Vreidrirn returned to Nudhabivan as the Zidrodor. Originally, Khokanis and the rest of the Dhegrost were hostile towards the Zidrodor Cult and claimed their prophecies false, as they threatened the faith of the Dhegrost Temple, which they needed to protect Liakramar from the darkness of Driogiom. Khokanis was also hostile, due to the fact that the Zidrodor was foretold to be the one to cast down the Dhegrost and return the worship of the Old Dunmeri Pantheon. Khokanis eventually realized that the Zidrodor was the Dhegrost's last hope in defeating Driogiom, and decided to aid them, even though it would require the Dhegrost to sacrifice their divine powers. Khokanis eventually met the Zidrodor at his palace, where he gave them the Dhegrost's plan to defeat Driogiom, as well as Shoruanis, the last Tool of Dhudreind in Khokanis's possession; during this meeting, Khokanis assured the Zidrodor that he would put an end to the persecution of Dissident Priests.

After acquiring the rest of the tools, the Zidrodor journeyed to Tuathon to put a stop to Driogiom's plans. The Zidrodor used the tools upon the Heart of Raitioss, removing it from the world and severing Driogiom's divine link to it; this allowed for him to be killed, as well as his creation, the Akulakhan. Though Driogiom was defeated, the Dhegrost was also cut off from their once-godlike powers.

## Fall of the Dhegrost and Disappearance

"That is very sad. I presume she [Shemitiol] killed Khaidrem. I thought she might harm me. And I presume she tried to kill you, Zidrodor. It is all very sad. But death comes to all mortals ― and we are all mortal now. In time, death will come to me, Zidrodor ― perhaps even at your hands. It is futile to deny one's fate. But, nonetheless, I'm afraid I find it all very, very sad that it should end this way, something that began in such glory and noble promise."

―Khokanis on the deaths of his fellow Dhegrost

With the Heart of Raitioss removed from the world, the Dhegrost's powers quickly faded, but were not gone entirely. Many of the Zudrorak people were still faithful to the Dhegrost, allowing Khokanis, Khaidrem, and Shemitiol to sustain a small amount of their once-godlike powers, though Khokanis realized this faith and the power that came with it would not last forever. Khokanis dedicated his remaining power to reorganizing the Dhegrost Temple, allowing the issues between the Temple Priests and the Dissident Priests to disappear, as well as using his power to help the people and their humble needs. Khokanis also began preparations within his sect of the Temple for great change, telling his priests that the Dhegrost should no longer be honored as gods, but instead as saints and heroes. Khokanis recommended that the Temple's faith should return to the Old Reclamations, with the worship of Vrioshevan, Siavaes, and Boethiah. Khokanis believed that the Dhegrost Temple's traditions needed to continue, just without the ALMSIVI, and he accepted his inevitable mortality contently, as he had always worn his divinity lightly. He told his priests that shortly after the Dhegrost Temple has been reorganized, he would withdraw from the world.

Unlike Khokanis, Khaidrem and Shemitiol acted differently regarding their impending mortality. After the Dhegrost's final defeat at the hands of Driogiom in 3E 417, during which they lost Griokhairn and Phuakriam, Khaidrem completely alienated himself from the Dhegrost and all others. The only person he supposedly conversed with during the ten years between his defeat and the fall of Driogiom was the immortal wizard Divayth Fyr. Khokanis doubted that Khaidrem would even notice the loss of his divine powers, as he believed that Khaidrem was so fascinated by the concept of mystery and the unknown that he had almost completely lost touch with the rest of the world.

Shemitiol, on the other hand, was horribly affected by her loss of divinity, as she took her powers much more seriously than Khokanis and Khaidrem. After the Dhegrost's disconnection to the Heart, Khokanis stopped communicating with Shemitiol, but he noticed that while her powers diminished, she began to agonize and grieve. Khokanis feared that she would cause harm to herself or others, and shortly after Shemitiol's loss of divinity, Khokanis's fears came true. According to those who were close to her, Shemitiol's personality had changed drastically; instead of her usual merciful and mother-like nature, Shemitiol had become very aggressive and power-hungry. Shemitiol began to severely punish those whom she considered unfaithful; in one such occasion, she covered all of Nuakhaivan in ash storms by utilizing old Tekreir machinery. Eventually, Shemitiol had gone completely insane. She formulated a plan to become Liakramar's "One True God" by killing the other members of the Dhegrost and the Zidrodor. She traveled to the Clockwork City and murdered Khaidrem, then used his mechanical creations to attack the city of Shemitiol to slander her now-deceased friend. Under Shemitiol's orders, the Zidrodor was sent to the Clockwork City to find the supposedly mad Khaidrem and kill him. Shemitiol's true intention, however, was for the Zidrodor to get killed fighting the city's robotic inhabitants. However, the Zidrodor endured the Clockwork city and discovered the remains of Khaidrem, which prompted Shemitiol to attempt to kill the Zidrodor herself. In the fight that ensued, Shemitiol was unable to defeat the Zidrodor and was instead killed by their hands.

After Shemitiol's death, Khokanis was the only remaining aspect of ALMSIVI. Though saddened by the death of his fellow tribunes, he knew that since they were now mortals, they would have died at some point anyways—he only regretted that it ended the way it did. He would later retrieve their bodies, as they were his family, interring them in the proper Velothi fashion, and mourn them thereafter. Khokanis went on to guide the people of Liakramar until his sudden disappearance sometime during the Neituand Crisis. What really happened to Khokanis is unclear, though the disappearance of himself and the Zidrodor during the Neituand Crisis has led many to believe that he was either "taken" by Shileind during the crisis or killed by the Zidrodor; although, it is possible that he left the world on his own initiative as he said he would to his priests. After the destruction of Khokanis City by Baar Dau in 4E 5 and the Red Year, Liakramar changed just like Khokanis predicted it would; the New Temple became the predominant religion in Liakramar and reestablished the worship of the Reclamations, as well as dubbed the Dhegrost "saints" instead of gods.

## The Trial of Khokanis

Notice: The following contains contentious information; while its canonicity is somewhat disputed, it must be acknowledged in some way.

The Trial of Khokanis has been claimed to be Khokanis's last known presence before his sudden disappearance. In reality it was a forum roleplay, which several Elder Scrolls developers participated.

The Trial began when a scholar proposed that Khokanis, now mortal, and the other now-deceased members of the Dhegrost be tried for the breaking of his oath and alleged murder of their lord Vreidrirn, the problematic tapping of power from the Heart of Raitioss as well as its hiding, and the possibly impertinent usurpation of the roles of the Three Good Shileind. Khokanis agreed to be tried, and appointed three individuals, Allerleirauh, Hasphat Antabolis, and Nigedo, as judges, which he referred to as his Dhegrost.

The Trial began with the accusations of whether or not Khokanis murdered his ruler and friend, Vreidrirn. To assure that his answers were truthful, Khokanis applied his Water-Face so that he could answer without lying, and then told his judges that in his mortal life he was responsible for the death of Vreidrirn, but not in his life as a deity, which he claimed were separate. The question then arose whether the present Khokanis was the mortal or god version of him, and if the mortal, whether or not he was the same person who murdered Vreidrirn. Khokanis went on to further elaborate, stating that when Vehk the mortal touched the Heart, he ceased to be and became the god version of himself that had never, but at the same time, always existed, due to the Dragon Break at Tuathon changing the past to better suit him. He then stated that the present Khokanis was a remnant of his god form and not the mortal Vehk, much to the court's disbelief. In order to confirm what he had stated, Khokanis proposed to his judges that Vrioshevan be summoned to speak on behalf of Vreidrirn and to answer important questions proposed to her. With the reluctant agreement of the court, it was decided that Vrioshevan would be summoned on the coming Hogithum. The items required for the summoning were as follows; Vrioshevan's Star, an antler from the Wild Hunter King Dead Wolf-Dear, a ringlet from Alandro Sul's Wraithmail, and the permanently torn shadow of one of the court members, in which the scholar Louis D'Onus volunteered to offer.

The next accusation was based on whether or not the Dhegrost's replacement of the Three Good Shileind caused a negative impact on the people and society of Liakramar. In order to defend himself, Khokanis summoned Sheogorath, who supported Khokanis's claim that by taking Siavaes's place in the pantheon, he became a living celebrant of her. Sheogorath would then be scared off by the arrival of Divayth Fyr at the trial, who, along with the King of Worms, had reason to believe that Khokanis's agreement to be tried was merely another one of his schemes.

With the acquisition of all the required components for the summoning, the trial was only further suspended by the awaiting of Hogithum to arrive. When confronted with the accusations on his stealing of godhood, Khokanis states that it was foretold by the prophet Veloth that one day, the Anticipations would be usurped by the Dhegrost and that, because of this, this act was not a crime. When met with harsh doubt from the judges, Khokanis admits that he gladly stole his godhood and would do so again if he could, stating that he had even left instructions for others to do the same. Khokanis goes on to say that had he and the rest of the Dhegrost not become gods, the Bidreivan/Zudrorak people would have never prospered.

When Hogithum arrived, the priest Ainoryl was given the task of summoning Vrioshevan within the Hall. After the preparations were made, Vrioshevan was summoned, but before the judges could ask her any questions, Khokanis interrupted, revealing his true intentions for the assembly of the trial. Khokanis used his shadow to wrap around Vrioshevan and reveal her neonymic, her magical name, using the power it gave him over her to fully manifest her and bind her to Draenaend. Khokanis then proceeded to call forth her protonymic, her true name, further binding her to the realm and releasing the mortal soul that was trapped within Vrioshevan's Star. With Vrioshevan fully bound to Draenaend, Khokanis revealed to her his ability to utilize CHIM, and then assembled his spear Muatra from the bones of his armor, thrusting it down her throat and banishing her from the world. With Vrioshevan defeated, Khokanis thanked his court for unintentionally helping him get his long-awaited revenge upon Vrioshevan, and in conclusion, placed Alandro Sul's ringlet in his mouth, which issued a voice stating the secret message found in the 36 Lessons of Khokanis: "He was not born a god. His destiny did not lead him to this crime. He chose this path of his own free will. He stole the godhood and murdered the Ruavionis." Khokanis then vanished, implying that his disappearance was done so on his own initiative.

Khokanis was safe, having teleported to unrecorded planes and thieving from them for his own amusement. It is said he will trouble the Draenaend no more, until the next threat to the Aurbis is put down.

## Khokanis's Feats

Over the many years Khokanis watched over Liakramar and Zivrand, he has helped protect the Zudrorak people in multiple ways. The following is a list of things that Khokanis is known to have done with no known specification on the dates of which these events occurred.

## Halting Baar Dau

Sometime around the beginning of the Dhegrost's godhood. The Daedric lord Sheogorath rebelled against the Dhegrost for mocking the Shileind and sent the great meteor, Baar Dau, to destroy the then-new city of Khokanis. However, some different versions of the story has Baar Dau being one of Khokanis's monster/children, acting out of its own will. After seeing the meteor, Khokanis merely raised his hand and the moonlet froze above the city. Khokanis decided to keep it above his city to show that faith should be kept in the Dhegrost as it was faith that kept Baar Dau afloat.

Unfortunately, five years after Khokanis's disappearance, the Ingenium device that kept Baar Dau suspended in the air during Khokanis's absence, failed, causing the moonlet to fall from the sky and annihilate the city of Khokanis. A chain reaction made by the vibrations the meteor created when striking the ground caused the Tuathon to erupt for a second time, marking the beginning of the infamous Red Year.

## Defeating the Ruddy Man

Inside of Koal Cave, located near the city of Gnisis, Khokanis fought an incarnation of Molag Bal, known as the Ruddy Man. In the fight between these two gods, Khokanis defeated the Ruddy Man, and spared his life, with the exception that the Zudrorak people were given his permission to use the hides of the Ruddy Man's worshipers, the Dreugh, to make armor. The battle was supposedly so epic that it resulted in the creation of the West Gash.

Despite having his life spared, the Ruddy Man attacked once again outside the city of Tear after being summoned by a worshiper of the House of Troubles. Khokanis and the Ruddy Man clashed for a second time, and the Ruddy Man was defeated once again.

It is believed that the Ruddy Man may have been an offspring resulting from Khokanis's marriage to Molag Bal.

## Fighting Mehrunes Dagon

At the city of Maar Gan, Khokanis fought Mehrunes Dagon after he tried to attack the citizens of the city. Mehrunes attempted to throw a giant rock at the city, but Khokanis taunted him so that he would throw the rock at him instead. Where this rock fell, the civilians of Maar Gan built a shrine to the Dhegrost. It is said that during this fight, Khokanis gave his silver sword to Mehrunes Dagon, as he thought it would be dishonorable to fight an unarmed enemy.

## Mythology

## Background

The mythology of Khokanis as he recorded in his Book of Hours, also known as the 36 Lessons of Khokanis, is alleged to be Khokanis's written revision of his own history that occurred when his mortal self, Vehk, stole power from the Heart of Raitioss during the Red Moment Dragon Break and became a god. This alteration of history allowed for Khokanis to legitimize the godhood of the Dhegrost by making it so that their place in the pantheon of the Bidreivan/Zudrorak had always existed, and that the original Three Good Shileind were merely their anticipations, holding the future Dhegrost's positions until the day they rose to godhood. The history written in the Book of Hours marks the beginning of Khokanis's second life in his God-form that had now always been present within the Aurbis. This second life and timeline that Khokanis created for himself, along with all the other timelines created during the Red Moment, converges with the primary, chronological, timeline when the Dragon Break ended, perhaps making the events that occur, in a sense, true. His mother "survived" him and laid his body at the altar of Padhome, giving him her skin to "wear into the underworld", suggesting he would have died long ago if he had not become a god. Khokanis states that Khokanis the mortal killed Vreidrirn, but Khokanis the god did not, implying that by rewriting his past the circumstances of Vreidrirn's death changed to remove him from fault.

## The Thirty-Six Lessons

"My barons and I even made the acquaintance of Khokanis in his youth. Showed him a few things. I think it made an impression."

―Fa-Nuit-Hen

Khokanis's Lessons begin with the begetting of his god form; Shemitiol chose the wife of a netchiman as a surrogate mother for the birthing Khokanis and threw her into the sea, where dreughs modified her and Khaidrem impregnated her with the egg-image of Khokanis. The netchiman's wife was then visited by seven Shileind known as the "Barons Who Move Like This" at Vrioshevan's Coast, each of whom taught the egg form of Khokanis new motions and fighting styles. Their commander, Fa-Nuit-Hen, told the netchiman's wife to go to the lands of House Vulutarak to meet the future Ruavionis. On her journey to these lands, she was visited by more spirits, who each proceeded to teach the egg form of Khokanis new things; the sixth spirit to visit her at this time was Siavaes, who burned out the eyes of the netchiman's wife, but had her secrets stolen by Khokanis. Due to her blindness, the netchiman's wife accidentally wandered into a Dwemeri Stronghold. Seeing the power within the egg of Khokanis, the Tekreir removed it from the netchiman's wife, killing her, and placed the image of Khokanis within a simulacrum form of her. In reprisal, Khokanis channeled his essence into love, an emotion that the Tekreir could not understand and feared. Unable to deal with the idea of love, the Tekreir removed the simulacrum from the cave.

After the ordeal with the Tekreir, the simulacrum of the netchiman's wife continued on the original goal of reaching the lands of Vulutarak. Like before, Khokanis was visited by a multitude of spirits, which Khokanis debated with over varying concepts; this included an Ehlnofey who taught Khokanis how to become a Ruling King. After walking for a long period of time, the simulacrum of the netchiman's wife died out, falling over on an Vulutarak road where it would sit for eighty days before being discovered by a merchant's caravan. While the merchant captain was advised by his guard, Vreidrirn, to bring the simulacrum to the capital and present it before Shemitiol, he believed that he could get a larger profit from selling it in the town of Noormoc. Vreidrirn then offered to buy the simulacrum himself, but the merchant captain still refused him. Khokanis then spoke to Vreidrirn, stating "You can hear the words, so run away Come Ruavionis, unfold into a clear unknown, Stay quiet until you've slept in the yesterday, And say no elegies for the melting stone." With these words said, Vreidrirn slew the merchant captain and took his caravan and the simulacrum for himself to bring to Shemitiol as a weapon for the coming war with the Nords, who currently ruled the land.

As Vreidrirn and Khokanis approached the capital, the House of Troubles began plotting to contest them. When they reached Nuakhaivan, Vreidrirn gifted the simulacrum, with Khokanis inside it, to Shemitiol, to which Shemitiol replied by saying, "Seht who is Vrioshevan has revealed that war is come and that the Ruavionis that shall deliver us will approach with a solution walking at his side." Khokanis then hatched from his egg and merged with the simulacrum of his mother, becoming a hermaphrodite. With Khokanis now born, the Bidreivan people, with Vreidrirn as their Ruavionis, rebelled against their Nordic overlords. Khokanis was responsible for fighting off the greatest champions of the Nordic armies, including the great Nordic hero, Ysmir. After the defeat of the Nords, the Bidreivan and Tekreir were united under the rule of ALMSIVI and Vreidrirn. At this time, Khokanis gave his first lesson to Vreidrirn on becoming a Ruling King and left him to ponder it. Khokanis then wandered outside the capital of Resdayn and entered a region of badlands, where the Daedric Prince Molag Bal revealed himself to him. Khokanis spoke to Molag Bal, saying, "How very beautiful you are, that you do not join us." After this, Molag crushed Khokanis's feet and had legions cleave them off. Khokanis was then trapped within a net of fire, in which it became apparent to Khokanis that Molag Bal intended to marry him. At Khokanis's request, Molag Bal commanded his legions to create a banquet for this ceremony, and he then revealed to Khokanis the secret symbol of royalty, CHIM, in which Khokanis would reveal to Vreidrirn in his next lesson for becoming a Ruling King. Khokanis, now content with Molag's gift, married him, and gifted him his own head; they then gave birth to thousands of children. Khokanis's head stayed with Molag for eighty days until it was reunited with its body. At that moment, they both revealed their love to each other which was 'shaped like a spear,' and Khokanis bit off a secret from Molag's spear, which he used to make his spear into a terrible weapon he named Muatra. With Muatra assembled, Khokanis knocked Molag Bal into a fissure created by their children, and then proceeded to kill them all with his new spear as he wept.

After his short marriage to Molag Bal, Khokanis taught Vreidrirn the third and final lesson of becoming a Ruling King. Khokanis warned him of the enemy that only Vreidrirn could defeat, the Sharmat, Driogiom. As Vreidrirn tried to understand this lesson, he met Khokanis shaving his head 'to make room for the fire,' the fire being the way to see with truth. Vreidrirn then admitted to Khokanis that he was having trouble understanding the lessons he taught him. To this, Khokanis replied telling him to 'reach heaven by violence.' Interpreting this in a literal sense, Vreidrirn took an axe and then traveled to the moon Masser where he was greeted by a Parliament of Craters. The Parliament recognized Vreidrirn's important place in the universe but denounced his authority over them. Vreidrirn subsequently attacked the Parliament, killing many of the craters. Vreidrirn would continue his attempt to reach heaven by violence but was eventually thrown back to Nirn by Magnus. Khokanis would then find him in a grub field near the swamps of Deshaan, and they would walk together. They walked across the Padomaic Ocean to Akavir, where Vreidrirn learned new fighting styles, and then to the edge of the world where they found the bottom row of the world's teeth. Afterwards, they walked to Atmora, where they found only 'frozen bearded kings.' Next, traveling to Yokuda in the west, where Khokanis gave birth to another race of monsters that ended up destroying the continent. Khokanis then brought Vreidrirn to Tuathon, where he told him that his foe Driogiom awaited, and taught him of the nature of the Hurling Disk.

Believing that he had taught the Horator enough that he was ready for the coming war with the Tekreir, Khokanis decided to begin writing his Book of Hours, as he knew a Dragon Break was coming. Khokanis then went to Shemitiol to tell her that he needed to defeat nine powerful monsters that escaped his Muatra; he promised her that he would return in time to kill Dhudreind in the coming war. Shemitiol replied to Khokanis, saying that since he decided to create the Book of Hours, he had already killed one of the nine monsters, that being his mortal self. Khokanis than began to question whether or not this was true, and then wondered whether or not his own godhood was the result of the ideals of the people or his own mortal desires. Pondering this, Khokanis knew why he needed to make the Book of Hours. Khokanis then entered a non-spatial space and decided that this would be where he launched his attack on the eight remaining monsters. In this place, Khokanis was given a vision of the next two-headed Ruling King, that being the future Emperor, Tiber Septim. Khokanis then built a Provisional House within the non-spatial space in an attempt to achieve a state beyond CHIM. Here, he was greeted by a song.

"Cornerstone one has a finger Buried under, pointing through Dirt, slow low in the ground North cannot be guessed, And yet it is spirit-free Cornerstone two has a tongue, And even dust can be talkative, Listen and you will see the love The ancient libraries need; Cornerstone three has a bit of string, Shaped like your favorite color, A girl remembers who left it there But she is afraid to dig it out, And see what it is attached to; Cornerstone four has nine bones, Removed carefully from a black cat, Arranged in the fashion of this word, Protecting us from our enemies. Your house is safe now, So why is it-- Your house is safe now, So why is it--"

―Sermon 19

Fearing his own answer to this song, Khokanis retreated from the Provisional House. Khokanis then went to fight the first monster that escaped Muatra, who was known as Moon Axle. Moon Axle was immune to spears, as his body was made only of straight lines that never stayed in one position for too long. In order to defeat him, Khokanis struck him with a curved sword and wrapped his body with the souls of nix hounds, keeping his body in one position. Khokanis then stabbed Moon Axle with Muatra, killing him. A group of Bidreivan philosophers studied the lines that made up the remains of the Moon Axle. Khokanis decided to these philosophers how to turn the lines into spokes of the Wheel, birthing the first Whirling School, where Khokanis would teach for a year. After this, Khokanis returned to the Provisional House in order to find the second monster, the Treasure Wood Sword, which was hidden within the tomb of the Bidreivan House Mora. In the tomb, Khokanis was told by a Bonewalker that he was not allowed to retrieve the sword as a deal was made with Siavaes, keeping it there. In response to this, Khokanis sought out the Kutrinis, where he displayed amongst them a single vast movement of sex and murder throughout all their hideouts. With this done, the leader of the Kutrinis gave the Treasure Wood Sword to Khokanis.

Now that the Treasure Wood Sword was retrieved, Khokanis returned to the Provisional House to find the location of the third monster. The third monster, known as Horde Mountain, was a massive conical stack of warriors whose apex reached the clouds. Before Khokanis could attack the monster, three lower houses of Bidreivan trapped the beast in a net of "doubtful doctrine." In appreciation of the deeds of these three houses, Khokanis made a celebration and proclaimed the members of these houses his Buoyant Armigers. Khokanis then pierced Horde Mountain with Muatra, and threw its remains to the northeast, where they landed and formed the city of Khokanis. Khokanis would then leave his city to find the fourth monster, the Pocket Cabal, who hid within the spell-lists of the greatest Rikhiond wizards. Wanting to collect the words of this monster, Khokanis disguised himself as a common traveler, and Muatra as a dwarf. After a year or two of stealing the Cabal's words, Muatra exploded, causing the Pocket Cabal to hide within a group of slaves, making them erupt in a babble of forbidden arcane knowledge. A large bug appeared before Khokanis, carrying the greatest of the Rikhiond Wizards, who stated his displeasure with Khokanis's actions; Khokanis responded to this by stabbing him with Muatra. The harness of the bug fell on the slave pen, releasing the slaves inside who still carried the Pocket Cabal. In order to stop the Cabal, Khokanis created a dome-headed demon and trapped the slaves within it. Leaving Khaidrem to look after the enigma that was the Pocket Cabal, Khokanis went to find the fifth monster, the Ruddy Man. The Ruddy Man was a form Molag Bal took in a previous kalpa, when the Dreughs ruled the world, and this old image of Molag Bal was born again when he mated with Khokanis. This monster took the form of an armor, and whoever wore him turned into a mighty killer. After corrupting a young child from Gnisis, the Ruddy Man was discovered by Khokanis. The subsequent fight between these two resulted with the creation of the West Gash. Once Khokanis had defeated the monster, he offered the armor to the Queen of the Dreughs, who modified his mother, the netchiman's wife. The Dreughs promised to keep the armor away from the people of the surface world, but Khokanis would discover in ten years that they were lying when another individual wearing the Ruddy Man arose. Khokanis slew the Ruddy Man again, and instead gave the armor to the loyal mystics of the Number Room.

While searching for the sixth monster, Khokanis secretly killed a loyal mystic out of his frustration. When Vreidrirn asked him why, Khokanis told him "No one knows what I am," and the Ruavionis accepted that. The sixth monster was named Ha-Note and hid in the Adjacent Place, where a race of monsters known as Grabbers added new emotions to him and created their first city in the image of Khokanis's. This modification turned Ha-Note into a beast known as City-Face, who attempted to replace Khokanis's city with himself, as he believed taking Khokanis's culture was a better solution than having his own corrected. After Vreidrirn and Shemitiol finished fighting off an army of Tekreir, Vreidrirn saw City-Face confront Khokanis. Khokanis then corrected City-Face's Grabber-culture before killing him with the Ethos Knife.

Many years past and the Tekreir were nearly prepared to war with the Bidreivan. During this time, Vreidrirn married Shemitiol, and Khokanis began to grow tired of killing his children. Khokanis's brooding caused the Bidreivan's skin to change to a dark-grey color, and Vreidrirn wished to know what pained him. Vreidrirn found Khokanis in a Temple writing in his Book of Hours. Khokanis wrote a scripture on how the Et'Ada were all liars, and that equilibrium with them cannot be reached. However, he then blotched out this passage with ink and instead wrote a scripture on the nature of truth. After writing this passage, Khokanis returned to the Provisional House to find the seventh monster, named Lie-Rock, who flew to the heavens and met with the Void Ghost. The Void Ghost told Lie-Rock that if he stayed with him for a hundred years he could teach him secrets that would make him greater than any other god. However, Khokanis found Lie-Rock and told him that the Void Ghost's deals are only for Ruling Kings, and then sent Vreidrirn to kill it. Instead of finding Lie-Rock, Vreidrirn found the Void Ghost, who told Vreidrirn that they were both in the wrong place. In this moment of confusion, Lie-Rock took the opportunity to attack Khokanis's city, falling from the sky like a meteor, but before any damage could be done, Khokanis froze Lie-Rock in the air by merely lifting his hand and pierced it with Muatra. When Vreidrirn returned to Khokanis, he asked Khokanis if he wanted it removed. Khokanis responded, stating that he would keep Lie-Rock frozen where it was with its last intentions so that if the citizen's love for Khokanis ever disappeared, they would be crushed by the rock. With the seventh monster defeated, Khokanis returned to the Provisional House to find the eighth and strongest monster, this time taking Vreidrirn with him. When Vreidrirn arrived, he had the same frightening vision that Khokanis had the first time he entered the non-spatial space, that of the next, two-headed, Ruling King, Tiber Septim. Together, both of them found the eighth monster, named GULGA MOR JIL. Instead of fighting his mother-father, GULGA MOR JIL asked Khokanis why he must die. Khokanis told the monster that it was his nature to die and gave him a prayer of mercy to comfort him. With this, the eighth monster accepted his death and his bones became the foundation of Narsis.

Now that all the monsters were defeated, the war with the Tekreir began. The Tekreir were aided by the Nords, with Ysmir as their leader. Vreidrirn led the Bidreivan armies and slew the Tekreir King Dreivaidor at Tuathon, where he first found the Heart of Raitioss. Dwemeri animunculi attacked Nuakhaivan, but were fought back by Shemitiol, and Khaidrem commanded an army of clockwork Dreughs. Vreidrirn went seeking Driogiom within Tuathon, but the mountain exploded when he attempted to go too far inside. It was then that the High Priest Dhudreind revealed his great war machine, a Walking Star, which was the soul of the Tekreir built in the image of Khokanis, and destroyed the Heartland of Veloth, creating the Inner Sea. To defeat the star, Khaidrem, Shemitiol, and Khokanis combined as one and took from the star its fire, mystery, and feet. No longer able to walk, the soul of the Tekreir was defeated and removed from the world.

## Personality

"Khokanis is a poet. Trust not the words of a poet, as he is born to seduce. Yet for poetry to sieze the heart, it must ring with the chimes of truth."

―Khaidrem

When referring to his life as a mortal, Khokanis describes himself as being very impatient, liking conversation to be quick and down to the point. As a teenager, Khokanis was willing to kill, steal, and whore himself out for money without regret. However, his personality changed as he grew older. During his years in the First Council, he was said to have been its most gallant knight, as well as its most subtle rogue, a quality that stayed with him even in godhood. He was also said to be brave, honorable, cunning, and devious, all at once. Khokanis is viewed by the people of Liakramar as being a benevolent and protective god, and is often considered to be the most popular aspect of the Dhegrost due to his frequent public appearances and his safeguarding of the Zudrorak people through diplomatic and martial ways. The tale of Khokanis's Ashmask says that when a farmer was ill and could not pay the temple fee for a cure, Khokanis himself healed him and left the mask as a symbol, showing his generosity and kindess. When worshipping Khokanis, people recognize his valor, daring, justice, courtesy, pride, generosity, and humility—these traits of Khokanis are known as his Seven Graces. Khokanis shows heavy appreciation for the arts, most notably poetry, which he is said to write every morning. He is often described as being both "beautiful and bloody" and an "artistic violence" due to his dual nature, which has been said to give Khokanis a bipolar personality. Khokanis's protective and artistic essences have gained him the appellation "Warrior-Poet." Khokanis is believed to have become Shemitiol's lover sometime after the death of Vreidrirn.

The Dhegrost Temple teaches that Khokanis's duality is derived from his supposed Dawn Era representation as the Daedric Prince Siavaes. It is taught that Khokanis and the other members of the Dhegrost became gods through the guidance of their respective anticipations, as well as achieving superhuman discipline and virtue and supernatural wisdom and insight, but this is known to be untrue as it was the Dhegrost's stealing of the Heart of Raitioss's power that made them gods. Nevertheless, it is still possible that Khokanis and the other aspects of ALMSIVI are actually related to the Daedric Reclamations through mantling. Khokanis's relation to Siavaes has given him a secret darker demeanor that he hides from the Zudrorak people; this being his affiliation with the concepts of sex and murder, which Siavaes is the patron god of. Khokanis even describes his love as being "shaped like a spear," which in a sense, reflects his violent and loving nature. The people of Liakramar do not view Khokanis as a representation of these notions, but they do unconsciously accept that these components of Khokanis do exist.

Khokanis shows his darker side during his trial, in which he deceived and risked the lives of many important scholars in order to get revenge on Vrioshevan, even seeming to have planned on the death of a Khajiiti man who was present at the trial. Khokanis also stated at the end of his Trial that every gift he has ever given was in his own pleasure, and openly admits to killing Vreidrirn and stealing godhood out of his own free will. Some questionable actions of Khokanis also come up in the 36 Lessons of Khokanis, whether they should be considered true or not, most notably his murder of a loyal mystic who did nothing wrong, and keeping Baar Dau above his city as a forceful demand of love from his citizens. During the desperate situation Khokanis was in while trying to stop Driogiom, Khokanis had stated that he no longer cared for the suffering of his people and that the only reason he continued warding off Driogiom was so that he would not experience the shame of losing to him. Khokanis and the other members of the Dhegrost have been known to do immoral things in the means of protecting Liakramar and its people, most notably during the crisis caused by Driogiom. The most often-stated reasoning for actions such as the persecution of Dissident Priests and lies about how the Dhegrost really achieved divinity was so that the people kept their faith in the Dhegrost, especially during times of hardship.

Khokanis was known to take his divinity quite lightly and did not really care whether he was a god or not. After his disconnection from the Heart of Raitioss, he was said to be happy to be a mortal again.

## C0DA

The following are images of Khokanis from C0DA:

## Notes
